Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
There you go.
There. You were hungry.
That's it.
Repeat.
Good day. sir.
Good day to you.
What brings you to Hewlands?
I'm tutoring the boys here.
The Latin tutor.
I've heard of you.
What brought you
into the garden?
Uh...
It's just a question.
master tutor.
Yes. I. uh...
I suppose the air was fresh
out here. and...
uh. I saw you with your bird.
- It's a hawk.
-  Ah.
May I?
Don't get too close.
He doesn't know you.
Oh.
Hello. boy.
Ah.
He likes you.
What is your name?
I shan't tell you.
You shall.
I shan't.
- You shall.
- I won't.
You'll tell me when we kiss.
What are you doing?
Agnes.
My name is Agnes.
Where are you from?
Have I said something?
- Huh?
- No.
- You don't know who I am.
- Wait. I wish to see...
You can't see me again.
Oh.
Where have you been?
I was in the field
helping Bartholomew.
A newborn lamb is unwell.
Well. I... I went to the field.
I did not see you there.
Well. I was there.
Tell her. Bartholomew.
She was there.
Have you seen
the new Latin tutor?
The glover's son.
The boys said he just ran out.
never returned.
He was supposed
to give them lessons
to pay off his father's debts.
I haven't seen him.
Well. should've known better.
Like father. like son.
You know. I do believe you are
the prettiest girls
in the parish.
-We are.
-One day.
I shall have my wits about me
for all the suitors
that will come for you.
Agnes is the eldest.
She'll marry first.
She will not if she keeps
running off to the forest
like a gypsy.
Where have you been?
We were expecting you
hours ago.
- I was...
- Well?
I was working.
Sit. Sit.
Your supper's near cold.
- Uh. boys. boys!
- Hey. -Stop.
There's enough for all.
How go the lessons at Hewlands?
Those boys are no scholars.
I wonder at the notion
of all that learning. -Hmm.
Latin for boys who will be
naught but sheep farmers.
- It is the putting on of airs.
- No. no. no!
- That will do!
- All right. Gilbert.
You heard your mother.
There's enough for all.
You speak ill of the boys
at Hewlands.
"They're no scholars."
But I tell you something.
they'll ever be more of a man
than you are.
They are put to honest work.
unlike you.
Useless. tradeless.
your fancy airs.
All that education.
not an ounce of sense.
I'm tutoring those boys to pay
your debts to that family.
am I not?
Your immeasurable
amount of debt to that family.
- I'm not...
- Stop!
What of the rest of the family
at Hewlands? Have you met them?
The mother only.
- Not the eldest daughter?
- No.
It is said the girl is
the child of a forest witch.
I've seen her.
wandering the back roads alone
with a hawk on her arm.
A hawk at Hewlands?
Yes.
They say she takes him to the
forest with her unaccompanied.
Yeah. but are you certain.
Eliza?
The eldest daughter keeps
a hawk. not a servant girl?
Yes. Yeah.
Agnes.
Hello.
What are you doing here?
Brought you this.
What is it?
It's. uh...
it's a new glove for your bird.
I have a glove.
Agnes.
Agnes. wait.
I know who you are.
Who am I?
Well. I... I don't know you.
but I've heard things...
I'm the daughter
of a forest witch?
Yes. People say that.
but I-I don't care...
I am my mother's daughter.
I've learnt many things
from her.
What are you looking at?
- You.
- Why?
I... -I thought you were a man
of words. master tutor.
Yes.
Are you not?
Speaking with people is
sometimes difficult for me.
Well. tell me a story. then.
- A story?
- Yes.
What story would you like?
Something that moves you.
All right.
Do you know the story
of Orpheus and Eurydice?
Orpheus is a man of music.
He has this exquisite voice.
His playing of the kithara.
which is a...
is-is a harp-like lyre.
is so divine.
birds. the...
the beasts. e-even the stones
and the trees.
they all moved
to the rhythm of his music.
Now. Orpheus falls in love with
this beautiful nymph. Eurydice.
Soon after their marriage.
Eurydice's bitten by a viper
and poison courses
through her body.
and she's killed.
And Orpheus. filled with grief.
journeys to the underworld
to take her back.
He charms this
three-headed dog. Cerberus.
He beguiles Hades
until finally...
...he's allowed to take
his love back with him
to the world
of the living but...
...under one condition.
What is it?
She must follow behind him.
and he must not turn around
to look at her.
Now. as they begin
their ascent.
Orpheus can't hear
her footsteps. so he listens...
...and listens and listens
and listens.
But all he can hear is
the sound of his heartbeat.
And the rest is silence.
And as he approaches
the gates of the underworld...
...he can't contain himself
any longer.
He turns around to look at her.
and she is...
...trapped in the underworld
forever.
Hmm.
That was a good story.
Did you like it?
Remember. mugwort.
what you brought to pass.
what you readied at Regenmeld.
You're called Una.
the most ancient plant.
You defy three. you defy 30.
you defy venom.
you defy air illness.
you defy the horror
that stalks the land.
And you. waybread.
plant mother.
you're open to the east
yet mighty within.
Carts creeped over you.
women rode over you.
You withstood it all.
and you pushed back.
Is it true that you
know everything about a person
by touching them here?
Not everything.
When you touched me here.
what did you see?
I saw a landscape.
- You saw a landscape?
- Mm-hmm.
Spaces. caves. cliff tops.
tunnels and oceans.
this deep. dark. black void.
undiscovered countries.
She speaks...
She speaks. she speaks.
But. soft.
what light through
yonder window breaks?
It is the east.
and Juliet is the sun.
...and kill...
...the envious moon.
Hello.
I wish to be handfasted to you.
No. I... I must be
handfasted to you.
No one else will do.
I-I will speak with your
stepmother and your brother.
and of course
they will not agree. but...
I don't care because
I have no talent for waiting.
I cannot abide waiting.
What about your parents?
Your parents will never agree.
Follow me.
Wait. Wait. W-Wait.
- No!
My glove.
- This is my mother's glove.
- Hmm.
She came out of the woods...
...like her mother
and her mother before her.
The women in my family
see things...
...that others don't.
Agnes.
ROWAN and YOUNG AGNES:
Remember. mugwort.
what you brought to pass.
what you readied at Regenmeld.
You're called Una.
the most ancient plant.
You defy three. you defy 30.
you defy venom.
you defy air illness.
you defy the horror
that stalks the land.
Bartholomew. it will heal.
Will it make a scar?
It may. That's no bad thing.
Listen.
Do you hear that?
You must pay attention
to your dreams. Agnes.
They will always guide you.
- Good day.
Yes.
Agnes. what's. uh...
what's happened?
Her mother has banished her
from their house.
She's not my mother.
The house belongs
to my brother. Bartholomew.
I chose to leave.
She's with child.
Oh.
Says it's yours.
- Is it? Yours?
- Uh...
The child in her belly.
did you put it there?
I did.
- We are handfasted. Mother.
- We will never allow it!
- There is no sin in it.
- I'm afraid you will need
- our consent. and we will...
- There is no sin in it!
- ...we will never
give it. ever!
- All right!
What?
- You've been bewitched.
- No.
I'd rather you went to sea
than marry this wench.
Mary.
There's no need for that.
I have no doubt
we can come to an arrangement.
-John.
-Hush. woman.
I am certain you are eager
to see your sister
before the altar.
I'm certain you'd rather not
see your boy
dragged before the bawdy court.
There's no need for that.
They said they are handfasted.
Only if I say so.
But why marry
a pasty-faced scholar?
What use is he?
He's got more inside of him
than any man I've ever met.
Everything will change.
You. You will change.
I'm already changing.
It's too quiet in there.
In where?
That house.
What would our mother say to us
if we were afraid or uncertain?
To live with our hearts open.
To shut it not in the dark
but to turn it to the sun.
He loves me for what I am.
not what I ought to be.
Then marry him you shall.
Thank you.
Remember. mugwort...
Say it with me. Say it with me.
What you brought to pass.
what you readied at Regenmeld.
You are called Una.
the most ancient plant.
You defy three. you defy 30.
you defy venom.
you defy air illness.
you defy the horror
that stalks the land.
Look at me.
Agnes.
Ah.
Oh.
Hey.
Look at that. Look at the fire.
Mmm. what's that?
The doggy dragged something in.
There's something.
Oh.
Daddy's coming.
Hello.
Stitches need to be smaller.
M-Much smaller.
Yes.
Hmm.
Useless.
Okay. and now...
smaller.
- Where are you going?
- I'm going.
Get back to work.
That was the last time
you will ever hit me.
Do you understand?
- Do you understand?!
- Yes.
My love. you should
come back to bed.
What are you writing?
Nothing of note.
It's never nothing.
I don't know.
Perhaps when it's finished.
it will...
Why don't you read me
what you've written?
A-Agnes. it's not--
It-It's not finished.
It's not finished.
Stop it. You'll wake the baby.
It's okay.
No.
I'm sorry.
I've had too much. uh...
Agnes. I've had
too much to drink.
I've had...
I've had too much to drink.
Hey.
What is it?
Give me your hand.
Pl-Pl-Please. please.
please. please.
please. please. please. please.
- What are you afraid
I will see?
- Please stop.
That I am a violent
and dangerous man.
No. you are
none of those things.
- How do you know?
- You're a good man. You're a...
You are a good man.
You're a good man.
Is it that you wish
that we never wed?
How could you say such a thing?
You and Susanna are
all that I live for.
All that I live for.
What is it. then?
- Here. Look at me.
- Just stop!
Stop. stop. Please. please.
please. please. please. please.
Look at me.
Listen. Listen. Listen.
I'm lost.
I've lost my...
I've lost my way.
I just need to--
uh. Agnes. I just need to work.
He's not sleeping.
Has he ever lost
his temper with you? -No.
- If he raises a hand...
- No. he has never.
He's never.
He's angry with himself.
He's sick with himself.
He's a good man.
He's a good husband.
he's a good father.
but he n-needs more.
What could he possibly need
other than his family and you?
- He has you.
- He needs to go to London.
- London?
- Yeah.
Why London? -Because London is
where the whole world gathers.
Perhaps he could extend
his father's business there.
- Oh. you're being hasty again.
- Who knows what he may be...
I'm not being hasty.
He needs more.
- Well. he needs proper work.
- He's not of this world.
The man needs proper work.
- What's in this little town?
- He can't just run away.
This little life?
This little thing. it'll...
...crush him.
He needs distance
from his father.
And you would go with him
to London?
No. I'll wait
until he's settled.
There'll be more of us soon.
- Another child?
- Yes. By summer's end.
Then now is not
the time to send him away.
I'll lose him.
I'm already losing him.
You'll lose him
if you send him away.
No. I know. I know that
our love will keep us steady.
Please.
Will you speak to his father?
He'll listen to you if you
suggest him going to London.
Please.
I should find lodgings.
Be near the river.
close to the tanneries.
But I'm told that the currents
in the river are dangerous
and that you must engage
an experienced boatman
every time you cross.
and I'll be certain to do that
every time. I promise.
And I will think of you
and Susanna
with every passing moment.
And I will find us
lodgings in London.
and we shall all be
together again.
Do you still not know
if it's a boy or a girl?
No.
Don't know why.
Have you not said
that you would
always have two children?
Yes.
Two children at my deathbed.
Well. then. here is the second.
- We won't say goodbye.
- No.
Get-- Go.
- You going somewhere?
- No. I'm just...
Yes. I'm going to the lake...
You're not going to the forest.
- I must.
- No. you must not. Gilbert!
You... you have to let me
go there.
-  Let me go there!
- Miss Agnes.
- You must let me go!
- The river has burst its banks!
- There is no way...
- Let me!
There's no way to get
to the forest. -Let me! No!
We have everything ready
for you. -My baby!
No. my-my baby.
I can't.
I will not have my baby
in this house.
Not in this house.
No.
The river.
- Hush. hush. hush. hush. Hush.
- No. no. no. no.
He spoke about the river.
The river is dangerous.
He may be swept downstream!
Agnes. Agnes. Agnes.
Agnes. all is well with him.
Do you not recall
his last letter?
Stop the screaming.
You'll wake the whole town.
He sound...
He sounded different.
No. he had good news for us.
- The theater.
- Theater.
He has a contract
with the players
to make gloves for the theater.
For the gloves. For the gloves.
Agnes. hush now.
Hush. Hush. Hush.
Bear down. Bear down.
Ah! Ooh!
- There we go.
-It's a boy.
There we go.
Good boy. Good boy.
It's a boy.
My boy.
Thank you.
What is it? What's happening?
She's starting again.
- You're having twins. my girl.
-Come on. Eliza.
Here. Quickly.
Take him.
No. no.
Two standing at my deathbed.
I always believed
that it would be...
that they would be my children.
And now...
now I see it will be you.
We need to get you
to the stool.
It's coming. It's here.
- No.
- Come on. Come on up. Up. up.
I can't... I...
I can't.
- Go.
- I should never have...
I can't...
I can't make it.
I got it wrong. I got it wrong.
I got it...
He... He's not here.
He's... He's not here.
Agnes. you can...
and you must.
I cannot.
Agnes.
You can...
and you will.
Your husband was born here
in this room.
He took his first breath
there by the window.
Please.
Please let this child live.
Let this child live. Please.
Will you let him...
Let him come back
and be with his child.
Please.
Let him think kindly
of me always.
Remember me.
Mama.
Mum?
Just too weak.
She was in too much pain.
I mean. poor woman.
She just got weaker and weaker.
I mean. that's just
the way of it sometimes.
She-she must have known
the end was nigh.
Best not speak of her
to the children.
Safer with a different mother.
So young.
They may not remember her.
-  Mum!
- Agnes. Agnes.
- Mama. no!
- No. no. Agnes.
Child. Child.
- Mummy. no!
- No. no. no. Ch-Ch-Ch-- No.
- No!
- No.
- No. let me see her!
- No. no!
- Let me see her!
- No!
No. Mama!
- Agnes.
- No!
Mum. I want. I want my mum.
I want my...
Oh! Here we go! It's a girl!
It's a girl. She's...
It's... Wait.
Come on. Come on.
Why is she not crying?
She lives not.
Let me have her.
You should not look
upon her. It's bad luck.
Give her to me.
I'll make sure
it gets a decent burial.
Give me my child!
My child.
Agnes. you have a baby boy.
Let me bring him to you.
and you may feed him.
The girl has gone to heaven.
She's not gone to heaven.
I made a vow
the night my mother died.
I will go to your church.
but I shan't say a word there.
Yes. Yes.
You will live.
I will make sure
nothing ever takes you away.
I actually couldn't find it.
Hmm.
Here.
Perfect.
I found my hat.
Okay. Yes.
Okay. take that side.
Take that side.
Yeah.
And put it around here.
Perfect.
- Ooh. Sorry.
- Let me help you.
It's down my face.
- I'm Hamnet.
- I'm Judith.
There will be no running
in this house.
Conduct yourselves.
please. as...
gentlewomen and gentlemen.
Where are you going?
Yeah. He's-he's coming.
He's coming.
Hello.
We all know
they've swapped clothes.
How long are we going
to pretend we don't?
We'll pretend for as long as
they think they're the same.
Hi.
Father. will you help me
with the Greek passage
from yesterday's lesson?
Hamnet. I thought
you'd already learnt it.
I didn't because
I left my primer at school.
Well. Hamnet.
you need to take
your studies seriously.
How do you expect to improve
if you're not...
You rascals.
- Did we trick you?
- Of course you did.
You swapped places
to hoodwink me again.
Susanna. come here.
Come here.
Now. do you remember the thing
we were going to do
for your mother?
Yeah. -You remember?
You ready to do it? -Yeah.
Okay. Go outside quickly.
Go. go. go. go.
go. go. go. go. go. go. go. go.
- Just step toward...
-  Wait.
One st--
Come to your right. Step.
Step. One more.
One more.
When shall we three meet again?
In thunder. lightning
or in rain?
When hurly-burly's done.
when the battle's lost and won!
That will be ere at set of sun.
- Where the place?
- Upon the heath.
There to meet with Agnes.
I come. Graymalkin.
Paddock calls.
Anon!
Fair is foul and foul is fair.
Hover through the...
Well done!
That was amazing!
Dig it deep. and then
you move all of it to the side.
and then you put it down here.
Right? And then you get
the soil around the sides.
and then you pat it more.
And then you get
bits like that.
And you rub it in your hands.
Whoa. And then back!
Do this.
And when you're
doing this. circle.
Yeah. like that.
Ready?
Forward. And back.
Now. parry. parry. parry.
Good. Again.
Now. after that one.
I'm gonna do this.
and you get out of the way.
Ready? Circle off.
Spin your sword.
No.
Circle. spin your sword.
Now. come forward.
And go back.
One. two three.
Out of the way!
Very good. Again.
Judith. what's this one called?
-Thyme. Thyme.
- Rosemary.
-Thyme. Thyme. Thyme.
- Thyme. Thyme.
- I got it mixed up.
- That's okay.
This one...
-Now. that's rosemary.
-Yeah.
And what is rosemary for?
- Putting it in apples.
-Apples.
No. Rosemary's for?
Remembering.
Now. you're to rub
all this in your hands.
You blow a little wish.
To wish him on his way.
Yeah?
And it's your secret with him.
Did you see him?
Did you not see him in the sky?
All right. do it again.
Make another wish.
Look. Right up there.
Look. just there.
Did you see him?
And he's got all your wishes
tucked in his little heart.
So any time that you want
to remember him.
you just have to go...
Where are you going?
Huh? I'm gonna catch you!
I'm gonna catch you!
Father?
Is all well?
Yes.
Listen. I want you to stay away
from your grandfather.
He'll not hit your sisters.
but it's you that I worry for.
and I need to know that you'll
be safe when I'm not here.
You're going back
to London again?
Yes. tomorrow.
Tomorrow?
It's all right.
Will we go with you this time?
No. not yet.
Hey.
I'll miss you.
But I have to go.
you understand? I...
I know.
I understand.
That's good.
'Cause I need you to look after
your mother and your sisters.
Will you do that?
Yes.
- Will you be brave?
- Yes.
Yes?
- Will you be brave?
- Yes.
Will you be brave?!
- Huh?!
- Yes! Yes. I'll be brave!
I'll be brave. I'll be brave.
I've looked at houses
for us in London.
-Autumn is coming.
- Mm.
And the children will fall ill.
Judith. she's still
not strong enough.
She often gets congestion
in her chest.
And the air in London is...
We can't.
But one day soon. we will.
We will come
to London with you.
No. you won't.
You'll never come.
You've waited for
the heat of summer to pass...
...the dryness of autumn.
the snow and the cold.
You do not believe that Judith
will ever survive London.
You'd do anything in your power
to keep that child alive.
Isn't that what a mother
is supposed to do?
Of course it is.
So...
...I've decided to look
for land outside Stratford.
That's where you should live
with the children.
- Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
Ooh!
Where is she? Ah!
Hamnet. There he is.
Come here.
I love you.
I love you. I love you.
All right. Love you.
- Come on.
- Love you.
Love you.
Oh.
All right.
Come here.
- Remember what
I told you. okay?
- Okay.
Good boy.
- Bye.
-  Bye.
Hamnet?
Oh.
Come on. Come here.
Show me your hand.
What? What do you see?
I see you.
Grown.
And very strong.
And I see you in London
working with your father.
- In the theater?
- Yes.
At the playhouse.
What will I be doing?
What do you wish to do. Hamnet?
I should be one of the players
with a sword.
A sword?
Yes.
And I shall clash it against
the sword of the other player.
Show me.
There'll be a terrible fight.
and everybody watching will be
frightened out of their wits.
And who will win?
I shall. of course.
Of course you shall.
Something has upset them.
What could it be?
The weather?
Something in the air. perhaps?
Best tell Joan to keep
the children inside today.
HAMNET
Judith?
Where are you?
Wake up!
The baker told me
her cat had kittens.
We need to see them.
There's eight. Judith. Eight!
We need to hurry.
It's going to rain.
Judith?
Jude?
What's wrong?
What's wrong. Judith?
Judith. answer me.
Judith. wake up.
Judith. please. Judith.
- What is it?
- It's Judith.
How long
has she been like this?
Since I returned from school.
AGNES
Oh. my God.
She's got it.
Hasn't she?
She's got the pestilence.
Hasn't she. Mama?
Go find your grandmother.
Bid her to come.
Now!
She's burning up.
We need. um. more water.
Make a bigger fire
and heat up more water.
- We need warm water.
-Eliza. fetch more water
and bring the Bellis
from the kitchen.
A row of cinnamon.
Cinnamon. that's good
for drawing out the heat.
Pineweed or a rue. Thyme. yes.
You'll find them in the room.
Mama. Yeah. -The
other table. The other side.
Yeah. Mama's here. my love.
Here. drink this.
It's rosemary and jelly.
All will be well. hmm?
All will be well.
Judith. stay with.
Mama's here.
It's okay. Mama's here.
Rhubarb. We need rhubarb
to purge the stomach.
drive out the pestilence.
Can you go and fetch some?
Mama's here. It's okay.
Judith. we're all here.
Susanna. draw some water. too.
Hamnet and...
and Mary and Susanna.
Draw water as soon as you can.
Why isn't he here?
Eliza. go write to your
brother and tell him to come.
Judith.
Open your mouth. Judith.
Open your mouth.
Mama's here. That's it.
That's good.
Yes. you'll be safe.
You'll open your mouth.
Drink it down.
Swallow it down. Mama's here.
It's okay. Judith.
Mama's here. It's okay.
Okay.
Agnes.
You have done all that you can.
I will not let her cross over.
Grandmama. you had three
daughters that were taken.
Were they...
Were they like Judith?
Anne was seven.
The other two were just babies.
They all had swellings and...
...fever like Judith.
Your mother's trying to...
keep a grip on her child.
It won't work.
What is given may be
taken away at any time.
We must never let
our guard down.
Never take for granted...
...that our children's
hearts beat.
that they draw breath.
that they walk and speak and...
...smile. argue. play.
Never forget for a moment
that they may be gone.
Jude.
Don't be sad.
You shall be well.
I shall not.
Not without you.
It's here.
Do you see it. Jude?
It's watching us.
I'll tell it to take us both.
We'll go together.
Turn away.
It'll make a mistake.
It can't tell us apart.
Breathe with me. Judith.
I give you my life.
You shall be well.
I give you my life. Judith.
I'll be brave.
I'll be brave. Father.
Whoa.
Quick as you can.
Hamnet.
Hamnet. you're not
supposed to be down here.
I need to take you up to bed.
Hamnet.
Hamnet?
Mama.
Hamnet.
You must open your mouth.
All will be well.
He's burning.
He's burning up.
It will not sti--
It will not stick!
A stone. There's a stone.
There's a stone upstairs with
a hole in the middle of it.
By his bedside.
Bring it down. I need it.
And. um. uh. salt. Get salt.
Get it. Can you give it?
Can you f-fetch me some salt.
as much salt as you have.
Water. We need water.
He's... he's too hot.
He's burning.
My love. Mama's here.
All will be well.
Hamnet. don't be scared.
No need to be scared.
All will be well. Mommy's here.
Mommy's here. It's okay.
Mommy's here.
Look at me. Mommy's here.
I will never. ever let you go.
You understand?
I love you.
Eliza. take Judith to
the kitchen and keep her there.
Please!
- He needs me!
-Stay there.
He needs me!
Please!
Valerian...
Hamnet. Hamnet. Hamnet.
Hamnet. you have to stay.
Hamnet. please.
You have to stay with us.
Mama needs you. We need you.
-Stop! Enough!
- Stay with us. Stay. stay.
Please. Hamnet.
Hamnet. Hamnet. Hamnet.
-Let him alone!
- Hamnet. please!
Can't you see that
it's too late for him!
Please. please.
Hamnet?
Hamnet. Hamnet.
My son is gone.
My son.
I've lost my...
I saw the light.
and I couldn't sleep.
MARY
Here.
Oh. child. no.
- No. no. no. Go to bed.
- No. no. let-let her stay.
It is my fault. Mama.
- It is my fault.
- No. No.
It is not your fault. Judith.
But he changed places with me.
He tricked it.
He tricked what?
Death.
Judith.
It took him
when it came for me.
Never say those words
to anyone ever again.
The fever came
for your brother.
and it took him.
Do you wish to see him?
Yes.
Go on. You can see him.
Is it really him?
Yes.
It-it doesn't look like him.
No.
It's not him.
It's not.
It-It's-it's not morning yet.
We haven't
prepared him properly.
Am I too late?
- It's you.
-Father.
It's you.
It's me.
Where is he?
Where is...
Where...
It's my boy.
I didn't see it.
I should've paid him
more attention.
I always thought
she was the one
to be taken away
when all the while it was him.
I'm a fool.
No. there's nothing anyone
could have done to save him.
You did everything
that you could.
Of course I did.
You weren't here.
I would have cut my heart out
and given it to him.
I would have laid my life down
on the ground for him.
- I-I know. I know.
- And no one would take it.
- But you...
- No. you don't know.
You don't know.
You weren't here.
He died in agony.
I...
- He was in agony.
- Agnes.
He cried and he cried
- and he cried and he cried.
- Agnes. stop. stop.
And his little body was
wracked in pain. -
No. don't shush me.
He was so scared.
- And you weren't here.
- I know.
I tried everything I could.
I know you did.
I tried... -You did
everything that you could.
You did everything
that you could.
Everything.
Agnes. Agnes.
I will send word. Agnes.
You'll send word?
- To whom?
- To you.
- I'm here.
- Mm.
What I meant was that I shall
send word when I reach London.
London?
I must leave.
Leave? How can you leave?
The world does simply not
stand still. Agnes.
There are people
waiting for me in London.
The season is about to begin.
and my company shall return
from Kent any day now.
I have to go now.
Now?
There's a traveling party
leaving today.
and they have a spare horse.
so yeah.
Look after the girls.
and I will return to--
Stop.
Don't.
Go. Go.
"When I do count the clock
"that tells the time.
"And see the brave day sunk
in hideous night;
"When I behold the violet
past prime.
"And sable curls
all silver'd o'er with white;
"When lofty trees I see
barren of leaves
"Which erst from the heat
did canopy the herd.
"And summer's green
all girded up in sheaves
"Borne on the bier
with white and bristly beard;
"Then of thy beauty
do I question make.
"Thou among
the wastes of time must go.
"Since sweets and beauties
do themselves forsake
"And die as fast
as they see others grow;
"And nothing gainst
Time's scythe can make defense
Save breed. to brave him
when he takes thee hence."
Will you read it again?
No.
I've read it three times.
That's enough.
Shall we do presents?
Presents from London.
A hair comb for you. Jude.
Mind you.
you'll have to be careful.
This is for you. Agnes.
- A ruby. is it?
-Mm-hmm.
It's the finest I've ever seen.
Everyone's talking about
the new house.
It's the biggest in Stratford.
There are so many rooms.
One could get lost.
You shall keep
the keys. Susanna.
You shall manage
the house well.
Put it on. Mama.
Did Bartholomew show you
the new house?
Mm-hmm.
Do you like it?
Why didn't you show me
yourself?
Were you afraid
I wouldn't leave?
'Cause Hamnet died here
in this house.
You know. I'm constantly
wondering where he is.
Or where he has gone.
Whatever I'm doing.
I'm wondering. "Where is he?"
I mean. he can't have
just vanished.
All he needs is
for me to find him.
He must be somewhere.
I fear I may run mad with it.
even now. a year on.
A year is nothing.
It's every second...
every minute. every day.
We may never stop
looking for him.
I'm sorry. Agnes.
Did you hear me?
I said that I'm sorry. Agnes.
- For what?
- For everything.
- You're caught by that place.
- For...
- What place?
- That place in your head.
It is now more real to you
than anywhere else.
Not even the death of our child
can keep you from it.
Hamnet died.
A horrible death.
And you should have been there.
You could have
bid him farewell.
What do you see?
Hmm?
Nothing.
Nothing?
Nothing at all.
Oh. well.
You should go back to London.
You need not concern yourself
with us.
Get along just fine
without you.
This was sometime a paradox.
but now the time
gives it proof.
I did love you once.
Indeed. my lord.
you made me believe so.
You should not have
believed me.
for virtue cannot so inoculate
our old stock for...
You should not
have believed me.
for virtue cannot
so inoculate our old stock
but we shall relish of it.
I loved you not.
I was the more deceived.
Get thee to a nunnery.
Why wouldst thou be
a breeder of sinners?
I am myself indifferent honest.
but yet I could accuse me
of such things
that it were better to...
Again.
Get thee to a nunnery.
Why wouldst thou be
a breeder of sinners?
I am myself
indifferent honest. but...
Again. "I am myself
indifferent honest." Again.
I am myself indifferent honest.
but yet I could accuse me of
such things that it were better
- my mother had not borne me.
- Again.
I. myself...
Again.
I. myself. am indifferent...
"I am myself."
I am myself indifferent honest.
but yet I could accuse me
of such things that it were...
Again.
But yet I could accuse me
of such things that it were...
Again!
I am myself indifferent honest.
but yet I could accuse me
of such...
You are simply
mouthing the words!
I am myself indifferent honest.
but yet I could accuse me
of such things
that it were better
my mother had not borne me.
I am very proud.
revengeful. ambitious.
with more offenses at my beck
than I have thoughts
to put them in.
imagination to give them shape
or time to act them in.
Now. what should
such fellows as I do
crawling between
heaven and earth?
We are arrant knaves all.
Believe none of us.
Go thy ways
to a nunnery. Again.
To be...
...or not to be...
...that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler
in the mind to... suffer
The slings and arrows of...
...outrageous fortune...
...Or...
...to take arms against a...
...sea of troubles.
And by opposing...
...end them.
♪ I pray that those trees ♪
♪ Will return my boy ♪
♪ For ♪
♪ Sweet bonny Robin ♪
♪ Is all my joy. ♪
Agnes?
I... I was in town. and I...
I thought
I would pay you a visit.
I was very sorry
to hear about John's passing.
How's your husband?
It's a... it's a terrible thing
to lose one's father.
He's well.
He's very busy.
He's preparing a comedy.
His new play is not a comedy.
It's a tragedy.
But you knew that.
Everyone in town
is talking about it.
I did warn you
about marrying him.
Don't pretend
that you care for me.
You are not my mother.
and you never were.
Good day. Agnes.
He's not spoken to us
for months.
How could he...
How could he not tell us?
Do you not wonder
what is in it?
In what?
The play.
Who are you looking for?
William Shakespeare.
We're his family
from Stratford.
Go up the stairs.
He lives in the attic.
Why would the man with
the largest house in Stratford
be living here?
I don't understand.
I thought...
I thought he...
What shall I do?
Keep your heart open.
-Who's there?
-Nay. answer me:
stand and unfold yourself!
Long live the king!
Bernardo?
If you do meet
Horatio and Marcellus.
The rivals to my watch.
bid them make haste.
I think I hear them. Stand. ho!
Who's there?
Has this thing
appeared again tonight?
- I have seen nothing.
-Horatio says...
What are they talking about?
What has any of this to do
with my son? -
These men are frightened.
Of what?
They watch for a ghost.
Ghost?
...The bell then beating one...
Peace. break thee off!
Look where it comes again!
In the same figure.
like the king that's dead.
See. it stalks away!
That was him.
That was Will.
- He's not in the play.
- No. no.
It was Will as a ghost.
Our last king. Whose image
but now appeared to us.
Was dared to the combat;
our valiant Hamlet...
Hamlet.
Did you hear...
did you hear that?
Yes.
They said his--
they said his name.
Agnes.
- Agnes. wait.
- Out of my way!
Please be quiet.
Wait. did they say
his name? Huh?
Do not upset yourself.
Why is--
Why did he use his name?
- I don't know him.
-  -MAN: Quiet.
...and by my advice.
Let us impart
what we have seen tonight
Unto the young prince...
Don't you dare pronounce
my son's name!
Quiet!
...dumb to us.
will speak to him.
Though yet of
our dear brother's death.
The memory be green.
Yet so far hath discretion
fought with nature
That we with wisest sorrow
think on him.
Together with remembrance
of ourselves.
I will not stay a minute longer
to be a part of this jest.
- Wait. One moment.
- No.
- I want to go home.
-...my cousin Hamlet.
and my son...
How is it that the clouds
still hang on you?
Good Hamlet.
cast thy nighted color off.
Do not for ever
with thy vailed lids
Seek for thy noble father
in the dust.
All that lives must die.
Passing through nature
to eternity.
Ay. madam. it is common.
But I have that within
which passes show.
These are but the trappings
and the suits of woe.
To persevere
In obstinate condolement
is a course
of impious stubbornness.
'Tis unmanly grief.
It shows a will
most incorrect to heaven.
Oh.
This too. too solid flesh
would melt.
Thaw and resolve itself
into a dew.
Or that the Everlasting
had not fixed
His canon
gainst self-slaughter.
'Tis an unweeded garden
That grows to seed;
things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely.
That it should come to this.
But two months dead--
nay. not so much. not two--
So excellent a king.
that was to this
Hyperion to a... a satyr.
Whither wilt thou lead me?
Speak. I'll go no further.
I am thy father's spirit.
Doomed for a certain term
to walk the night.
And for the day confined
to fast in fires.
My hour is almost come
When I to sulfurous
and tormenting flames
Must render up myself.
- Alas. poor ghost.
- No. pity me not...
...but lend thy serious hearing
To what I shall unfold.
List.
List. oh. list.
If thou didst ever
thy father love...
Oh. God.
But soft. methinks
I scent the morning air.
Brief let me be.
Sleeping within my orchard.
Upon my secure hour.
thy uncle stole
With juice of cursed hebona
in a vile.
Within the porches
of my ears did pour
The leprous distillment...
...whose effect Holds such
an enmity with blood of man
That swift as quicksilver
it courses through
The natural gates and alleys
of the body.
And with a sudden vigor
it doth posset
And curd. like...
...eager droppings into milk.
The thin and wholesome blood.
So did it mine.
A most instant tetter
barked about...
...Most lazar-like.
with vile and loathsome crust.
All my smooth body.
Oh. horrible.
Oh. horrible. Most horrible.
If thou hast nature in thee.
bear it not...
He has swapped places
with our son.
Look at me.
The... the glowworm shows
the matin to be near.
And 'gins to pale
his uneffectual fires.
My boy.
Adieu.
Remember me.
To be. or not to be.
that is the question.
Whether 'tis nobler
in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows
of outrageous fortune.
Or to take arms
against a sea of troubles
And. by opposing. end them.
To die. to sleep.
No more.
And by a sleep. to say we end
The heartache
and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to--
'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished.
To die.
To sleep. perchance to dream.
Ay. there's the rub.
For in that sleep of death.
what dreams may come
When we have shuffled
off this mortal coil
Must give us pause.
There's the respect
That makes calamity
of so long life.
Who would bear
the whips and scorns of time.
The oppressor's wrong.
the proud man's contumely.
The pangs of despised love.
the law's delay.
The insolence of office.
and the spurns
That patient merit
of the unworthy take.
When he himself might
his quietus make
With a bare bodkin?
Who would fardels bear.
To grunt and sweat
under a weary life.
But that the dread
of something after death.
The undiscovered country
from whose bourn
No traveler returns.
puzzles the will.
And makes us
rather bear those ills...
En garde!
One!
No! No!
A hit. a palpable hit!
Our son shall win!
Well. again!
Gertrude. do not drink.
Another hit! What say you?
Have at you now!
How does the queen?
She swoons to see them bleed.
No. no. the drink. the drink!
Oh. my dear Hamlet.
I am poisoned.
Oh. villainy!
Ho. let the door be locked!
Treachery! Seek it out!
It is here. Hamlet.
Hamlet. thou art slain.
No medicine in the world
can do thee good.
In thee. there is not
half an hour's life.
The king's to blame!
The point envenomed. too?
Then. venom. to thy work!
Here. thou incestuous.
murderous. damned Dane!
Drink...
Drink off this potion!
Is thy union here?
Follow my mother.
I am dead.
Thou livest.
Report me and my cause aright
To the unsatisfied.
If thou didst ever
hold me in thy heart.
Absent thee
from felicity awhile.
And in this harsh world
draw thy breath in pain
To tell my story.
I die!
The potent poison
quite o'ercrows my spirit.
The rest is silence.
♪ My Robin
to the greenwood will go ♪
♪ Where the oak and the ash ♪
♪ And the briars do grow ♪
♪ How fares my love ♪
♪ As the darkness falls ♪
♪ There within ♪
♪ Those tangled walls? ♪
♪ How fares my love ♪
♪ As the darkness falls ♪
♪ There within ♪
♪ Those tangled walls? ♪
♪ The greenwood is near ♪
♪ And the greenwood is far ♪
♪ And many a danger ♪
♪ Befalls a man there ♪
♪ I pray that those trees ♪
♪ Will return my boy ♪
♪ For sweet bonny Robin ♪
♪ Is all my joy ♪
♪ I pray that those trees ♪
♪ Will return my boy ♪
♪ For sweet bonny Robin ♪
♪ Is all my joy. ♪
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today